PREVIOUSLY ON "INTELLIGENCE"...
WHAT YOU ARE ABOUT
TO SEE IS A KIDNAPPING.
VICTIM IS PRIORITY RED.
THAT'S DR. SHENANDOAH CASSIDY.
WE'VE SOURCED THIS
TO ONE OF YOUR OPERATIVES --
JIN CONG.
Riley:
WHO THE HELL IS JIN CONG?
Gabriel:
CHINESE INTELLIGENCE.
Cong: DOCTOR, YOU KNOW
WHAT YOU MUST DO NOW.
REFUSE,
AND I WILL DIG THE CHIP
OUT OF HIS DEAD SKULL
MYSELF.
DROP YOUR WEAPON.
DON'T DO IT, GABRIEL.
NOW, DOC!
WANT TO EXPLAIN TO ME
WHY WE'RE GIVING JIN CONG
BACK TO THE CHINESE?
WE'RE MAKING A TRADE.
[ GRUNTS ]
[ BONE CRACKS ]
[ GROANS ]
[ THUD ]
Nelson: BUT PLEASE,
DON'T TREAT ME THIS WAY.
NOBODY ELSE AROUND HERE IS GONNA
RUB THAT SWEET, SWEET OIL
ALL OVER YOUR SMELLY PLATENS --
NOBODY.
[ LID SLAMS ]
YOU TWO HAVE A FIGHT?
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO MAKE
HARD COPIES
OF OUR TR-9 REPORTS
EVERY WEEK.
IT'S THE ONLY TIME WE EVER USE
PAPER IN THIS PLACE.
BUT SOMETHING
IS NOT WORKING.
AND, YES,
IT'S PLUGGED IN.
HEY. HOW ABOUT
SOME HELP, HUH?
CAN YOU DO SOME OF THAT VOODOO
THAT YOU DO ON HER --
YOU KNOW, A LITTLE
CHIP-TO-CHIP ACTION?
YOU REALLY WANT ME TO USE A
$30 BILLION PIECE OF TECHNOLOGY
TO TROUBLESHOOT
YOUR PRINTER?
IF THE CHIP WERE ON THE OTHER
FOOT, SHE'D HELP YOU.
DON'T LISTEN TO HIM.
"SHE."
THEM AGAIN? REALLY?
GABRIEL, IT'S A D.O.D.
SECURITY AUDIT.
WHAT DID YOU EXPECT?
THIS IS OUR GESTURE-BASED
SATELLITE CONTROL CONSOLE.
WITH A WAVE OF THE HAND,
YOU CAN MANIPULATE OUTER SPACE.
YOU'RE MOVING ONE OF OUR
SATELLITES ACROSS THE WORLD?
Jameson: I'M ISSUING
THE COMMAND RIGHT NOW.
IT'LL TAKE A COUPLE OF HOURS
TILL IT'S ACTUALLY COMPLETE.
THE CIA HAS ASKED US TO MONITOR
NORTH KOREA'S DEPLOYMENT
OF THEIR SANG-O CLASS
SUBMARINES.
THEY'VE BEEN STRAYING OUTSIDE
THE 50-KILOMETER EXCLUSION ZONE.
SO,
IF IT'S GESTURE-BASED,
HOW DO YOU PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED
ACCESS TO THE SYSTEM?
ALL OF
CYBERCOM'S SYSTEMS
USE THE SAME LIVE-TISSUE
PALM SCAN TO VERIFY USERS.
[ BEEPING ]
SO THE COMPUTER
REGISTERS SKIN CONDUCTIVITY
AND SUBDERMAL CAPILLARY
STRUCTURE
TO CALCULATE
A 2,048-BIT VERIFICATION.
THAT MEANS ALL THE PEOPLE
ACCESSING THIS SYSTEM
HAVE THE APPROPRIATE
CLEARANCES TO DO IT.
AND WHAT IF A USER
LOSES THEIR I.D.?
SUSAN, THE QUESTION
YOU SHOULD BE ASKING --
"WHAT HAPPENS IF THE USER
GETS THEIR HAND CUT OFF
IN A FREAK
GARDENING ACCIDENT?"
WELL?
AGENT JAMESON.
YES, MA'AM?
LET'S DO A HAND COUNT TODAY.
MAKE SURE EVERYONE HAS TWO.
HAND COUNT.
TWO PER.
YES, MA'AM.
I FEEL SAFER ALREADY.
Nelson:
ARE YOU SEEING THIS?
AT FIRST, I THOUGHT
THERE WAS A BUG
IN THE PRINT DRIVER, RIGHT?
BUT THEN I REALIZED
IT STARTED FILLING
THE RING BARRIER
WITH ALL KINDS OF NONSENSE.
Jameson: IT LOOKS LIKE
THE REGISTRY'S CORRUPTED.
OH, GEE,
I HADN'T NOTICED.
IS THERE A PROBLEM,
GENTLEMEN?
NO.
THERE'S NO PROBLEM.
OKAY, YES,
MAYBE JUST A SMIDGE.
[ KEYBOARD CLACKING ]
David: AGENT NEAL.
LET ME GUESS --
YOU WANT TO SEE MY HANDS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I REALIZE EVERYONE HATES US
BEFORE WE EVEN GET HERE,
BUT THERE IS A METHOD
TO THE MADNESS.
HEY, I GET IT.
YOU'RE BIG BROTHER'S
FREELANCE SNITCH.
KIND OF COMES
WITH THE TERRITORY.
[ CHUCKLES ]
OUCH! "SNITCH." REALLY?
WHAT I MEANT WAS
YOU DON'T NEED TO APOLOGIZE.
I'M RESPONSIBLE
FOR SECURITY MYSELF.
OH, THEN YOU CAN
APPRECIATE THE IMPORTANCE
OF CONSIDERING
EVERY POSSIBLE THREAT SCENARIO.
OF COURSE, JUST AS LONG
AS CAUTION DOESN'T PARALYZE YOU
FROM TAKING ACTION.
I AGREE,
WHICH IS WHY I'M GONNA
GO OUT ON A LIMB HERE
AND ASK YOU TO LET ME
BUY YOU DINNER TONIGHT.
[ CHUCKLES ]
UM...I'M SORRY, DAVID.
I CAN'T.
WHY NOT?
I'M FRIENDLY,
AGE-APPROPRIATE, EMPLOYED.
I JUST THINK IT WOULD BE
INAPPROPRIATE.
ONLY
IF YOU'RE LUCKY.
[ BOTH CHUCKLE ]
THANKS, ANYWAY.
HE ASK YOU OUT?
WHAT?
YOU SAID NO?
PROBABLY FOR THE BEST.
HE'S NOT THE ONE.
AND HOW DO YOU KNOW?
OH, DOES YOUR CHIP MAKE YOU
A FORTUNE TELLER NOW?
I DON'T NEED A CHIP
FOR THAT.
HE'S A NICE GUY,
YOU LIKE HIM,
BUT YOUR INNER VOICE
SAYS NO.
AND HOW DO I KNOW
WHEN MY INNER VOICE SAYS YES?
YOU JUST KNOW.
WOULDN'T KILL YOU
TO HAVE A CUP OF COFFEE
WITH THE GUY, THOUGH.
WE DO NEED
A PASSING GRADE.
GUYS,
I THINK I NEED YOUR HELP.
BRO, I DON'T KNOW
HOW THIS HAPPENED.
I'M VERY CAREFUL
ABOUT WHAT I PUT IN MY BABY!
THE ENTIRE STATION
IS DOWN.
[ SIGHS ]
[ KEYBOARD CLACKING ]
Woman: SCANNING THAT NOW.
[ BEEPING ]
IT'S NOT JUST YOU.
IT'S THE WHOLE NETWORK.
LILLIAN? YEAH, YOU MIGHT
WANT TO COME DOWN HERE.
NELSON FOUND SOME KIND OF
IRREGULARITY WITH THE NETWORK.
WAIT, LET ME SEE
IF THIS WILL HELP.
NO,
THAT'S NOT GONNA WORK.
WHATEVER IT IS,
IT'S AGGRESSIVE.
HOW DID THIS THING
SNEAK UP ON ME?
DAMN IT, WHERE IS
THIS THING COMING FROM?!
[ ELECTRICITY WARBLES ]
I SWEAR THAT WASN'T ME.
[ ALARM BLARING ]
CROSSOVER POWER
IS ENGAGED.
SYSTEMS COMING
BACK ONLINE.
NELSON,
WHAT'S GOING ON?
HONESTLY,
I DON'T KNOW.
GABRIEL, REPORT.
GABRIEL,
ARE YOU OKAY?
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
WHO THE HELL
ARE YOU PEOPLE?
Lillian: ONE OF OUR NATION'S
MOST DECORATED SOLDIERS.
HE'S A HERO, AND NOW OUR
COUNTRY'S MOST SECRET WEAPON.
GABRIEL POSSESSES
A RARE GENETIC MUTATION
THAT ALLOWED US TO IMPLANT
A MICROCHIP IN HIS BRAIN.
WE CONNECTED HIS MIND DIRECTLY
TO THE INFORMATION GRID.
IT'S SOMETHING THE CHIP DOES
THAT NOBODY EXPECTED.
I CAN CREATE A VIRTUAL SNAPSHOT
OF AN EVENT IN MY MIND
AND THEN WALK THROUGH IT.
IT'S LIKE
A VIRTUAL EVIDENCE WALL.
AT U.S. CYBER COMMAND,
WE CREATED A HIGHLY SPECIALIZED
UNIT AROUND HIM...
Amos:
SATELLITE IN FIVE.
...AND ASSIGNED AN AGENT
TO PROTECT HIM.
RUN!
HE'S THE FIRST OF HIS KIND --
THE NEXT EVOLUTION
OF INTELLIGENCE.
Riley: GABRIEL?
GABRIEL,
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
COMMS IS REPORTING
AN ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE
BRIEFLY KNOCKED OUT
OUR COMMUNICATIONS GRID.
AN E.M.P. FROM WHERE?
SYSTEMS ARE RECOVERING.
OH, CRAP. I GOT A LEVEL-THREE
VIOLATION ON THE INCOMING N.I.C.
LOCK IT DOWN.
GABRIEL, DO YOU KNOW
WHERE YOU ARE?
SOMETHING IS VERY WRONG
WITH HIM.
JAMESON.
YEAH.
TAKE GABRIEL
DOWN TO DR. CASSIDY.
I WANT A FULL REPORT
AS SOON AS YOU HAVE IT.
OKAY. COME ON.
LET'S GO, BIG GUY.
WHOA, WHOA. EASY, PAL. WE'RE ON
THE SAME TEAM, HERE, ALL RIGHT?
"SAME TEAM"? WHAT ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT, SAME TEAM?
SOMEBODY NEEDS TO TELL ME
WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE!
GABRIEL, RELAX.
I'M GONNA TAKE YOU DOWN
TO CLOCKWORK RIGHT NOW, OKAY?
[ GRUNTS ]
[ GROANS ] "CLOCKWORK"?
WHAT THE HELL
IS CLOCKWORK?
[ GRUNTS ]
GET HIM DOWN TO THE LAB.
[ GRUNTING ]
WHOA, WHOA. HEY, HEY, HEY.
BE CAREFUL WITH HIM!
ALL RIGHT, EVERYONE, THIS IS
A PHASE-FOUR SECURITY LOCKDOWN.
DISABLE REMOTE ACCESS.
TAKE THE BACKUP SERVERS OFFLINE.
JAMESON,
TRANSFER SATELLITE CONTROL
TO N2C2
AT CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN.
CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN
IS NOT RESPONDING
TO OUR TRANSFER REQUEST.
Riley: WHAT?
THEY'RE NOT RESPONDING BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT RECEIVING US.
WAIT, WHOSEVER BEHIND THE ATTACK
IS SPOOFING OUR STATION I.D.
AND HAS TAKEN CONTROL OF OUR
OUTBOUND COMMUNICATIONS.
HOW WE DOING
ON THAT SECURITY AUDIT?
[ SIGHS ]
[ THUD ]
LET ME OUT OF HERE.
GABRIEL,
YOU NEED TO CALM DOWN.
WE'RE NOT
TRYING TO HURT YOU.
"WE"? WHO'S WE?
[ SIGHS ]
YOUR NAME
IS GABRIEL VAUGHN.
YOU WERE
A DELTA FORCE SOLDIER.
NOW YOU WORK FOR A TOP-SECRET
PROGRAM CALLED CLOCKWORK.
MY NAME IS RILEY NEAL.
I'M YOUR PARTNER.
"PARTNER"?
I...KIND OF
LOOK AFTER YOU...
OVER YOU.
WE HAVE THIS...
I CAN'T EXPLAIN IT.
WE'RE FRIENDS...
AND PARTNERS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
UH,
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN.
ARE WE...INTIMATE?
NO! NO.
GOD, NO.
[ SIGHS ]
I JUST -- I MEAN, NO, UH,
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT.
WHY AM I LOCKED UP?
[ SIGHS ]
YOU'RE NOT LOCKED UP.
YOU'RE IN THERE
FOR YOUR OWN PROTECTION.
PROTECTION FROM WHO?
YOU?
FROM YOURSELF.
WELL, I DON'T PLAN
ON HURTING MYSELF, MS. NEAL,
SO HOW ABOUT
YOU LET ME OUT?
"MS. NEAL."
THAT'S GREAT.
YOU NEED TO
DO SOMETHING.
I'M TRYING TO DO SOMETHING,
RILEY.
THE BRAIN WORKS
MUCH LIKE A COMPUTER, OKAY,
EVEN WITHOUT THE CHIP.
THERE'S SHORT-TERM MEMORY --
RAM, IF YOU WILL --
AND THERE IS
LONG-TERM MEMORY,
A HARD DRIVE KNOWN
AS THE HIPPOCAMPUS.
FOR THE CHIP TO PROCESS DATA
ORGANICALLY,
IT HAD TO BE CONNECTED
TO THE HIPPOCAMPUS.
THE E.M.P. DISRUPTED
GABRIEL'S NERVE ENDINGS.
THE RESULT WAS LIKE,
UH...
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
HUH?
...UNPLUGGING THE HARD DRIVE
FROM THE COMPUTER.
E.M.P.?
YEAH, IT'S A DISCHARGE
OF ELECTROMAGNETIC ENERGY
THAT CAN TEMPORARILY DISABLE
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS.
GABRIEL'S CHIP
SEEMS TO HAVE MADE HIM
SUSCEPTIBLE
TO JUST SUCH AN ATTACK.
SO, THE MEMORIES
ARE IN THERE.
YOU JUST...
NEED TO PLUG THEM IN.
[ SIGHS ]
YEAH, WELL, THAT'S WHERE THE
MYSTERY OF THE BRAIN COMES IN.
GIVEN TIME,
THE RIGHT STIMULI,
SOMETIMES IT CAN FIND
AN ALTERNATE ROUTE,
BUT SOMETIMES IT CANNOT.
ONE THING
I DO KNOW IS THIS.
THE LONGER
HE IS LIKE THIS,
THE LESS CHANCE WE HAVE
OF GETTING HIM BACK.
TIER FIVE BULKHEADS
ARE DOWN.
NO, MAKE THAT TIER SIX.
WHAT ABOUT THE DMZ SERVER?
IT'S GOING OFFLINE.
LILLIAN, NORAD'S STILL
NOT RESPONDING.
NO ONE'S RESPONDING.
OKAY, TIER SEVEN HAS BEEN
COMPROMISED NOW, TOO,
WHICH MEANS IF WE --
I KNOW WHAT IT MEANS, NELSON.
IT MEANS WHEN THEY GET
TO TIER 10,
THEY WILL HAVE ACCESS
THE MOST SENSITIVE INFORMATION
THIS COUNTRY HAS.
YES, BUT WHERE IS IT COMING
FROM, LILLIAN?
WHO HAS THE KIND OF POWER
TO PULL OFF AN ATTACK
OF THIS SCALE?
RUSSIANS, CHINESE,
WHO KNOWS?
MAYBE THE IRANIANS HAVE FINALLY
GOTTEN THEIR ACT TOGETHER.
AND THERE GO
OUR SECURITY CAMS.
SEE IF YOU CAN ISOLATE
THE GATEWAY FIREWALL.
OUT OF MY SPACE,
PLEASE.
THE GATEWAY FIREWALL --
IT'S THE SECURITY DEVICE
THAT PROTECTS THE WAN INTERFACE.
I KNOW WHAT IT IS,
LADY.
THEY BURNED THROUGH THAT
5 MINUTES AGO. NOW BACK OFF!
PLEASE!
THEY'RE MAKING A RUN
FOR THE PRISM SILO.
LILLIAN...
YOU WERE RIGHT.
THEY'RE NOT TRYING
TO JUST SHUT US DOWN.
THEY'RE GOING AFTER
OUR CLASSIFIED DATA.
OKAY, THAT'S IT.
I'M FORMALLY INSTITUTING
THE ORION PROTOCOL.
ORION?
NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
THAT IS
AN INTOLERABLE RISK.
ORION IS A PROTOCOL
OF LAST RESORT.
TAKE A LOOK AROUND.
THERE ARE NO RESORTS LEFT.
TIER EIGHT BULKHEADS
ARE GONE.
OXYGEN SCRUBBERS
ARE POWERING OFF.
JAMESON.
ORION. CUT THE TRUNK.
[ GRUNTS ]
[ DISTORTED RADIO CHATTER ]
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
CAN YOU STOP THE NOISE?!
WHAT NOISE?
"WHAT NOISE"?
CAN'T YOU HEAR IT?
THIS IS WHAT HE WAS LIKE
IN THE BEGINNING.
HE'S FLOODED WITH DATA.
HE HAS NO IDEA
HOW TO CONTROL IT.
[ SIGHS ]
HOW DID YOU DO IT BACK THEN?
WELL, WE HAD HIM
IN A CONTROLLED,
SHIELDED ENVIRONMENT.
RIGHT NOW,
HE'S WIDE OPEN.
WHERE AM I?
WHAT IS THIS PLACE?
[ SIGHS ]
YOU ARE
AT U.S. CYBER COMMAND
IN ANGEL'S BLUFF,
VIRGINIA.
VIRGINIA?
IS THAT WHERE I LIVE?
IT'S WHERE YOU WORK.
YOU HAVE A MICROCHIP
IN YOUR BRAIN...
AND IT'S MALFUNCTIONING.
A WHAT?
[ SIGHS ]
Shen:
YOU'RE NOT GOING IN THERE!
I CANNOT TALK TO HIM
LIKE THIS.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA
WHAT HE'S CAPABLE OF.
[ SIGHS ]
NO. YOU STAY HERE.
WHY?!
BECAUSE I DO KNOW
WHAT HE'S CAPABLE OF.
LOCK THE DOOR.
[ KEYPAD BEEPING ]
[ LOCK ENGAGES ]
I KNOW YOU'RE SCARED.
BUT I JUST NEED YOU TO CALM DOWN
AND JUST LOOK AT ME.
[ BREATHES DEEPLY ]
OKAY?
I NEED YOU TO TRUST ME.
ACCESS
MY PERSONNEL FILE.
HOW DO I DO THAT?
GABRIEL,
WE USED TO LISTEN
TO MOZART'S 5th SYMPHONY
TOGETHER, OKAY?
YOU -- YOU HATED IT,
BUT IN LEARNING TO IDENTIFY
A SINGLE VIOLIN,
THAT TAUGHT YOU HOW TO EXCLUDE
ALL BUT ONE SENSORY INPUT.
NOW, LOOK AT RILEY
AND EXCLUDE EVERYTHING BUT HER,
ALL RIGHT?
JUST FOCUS.
[ DISTORTED RADIO CHATTER ]
[ SIGHS ]
I HAVE SOMETHING.
"ARRESTED
FOR PUBLIC NUDITY
AND POSSESSION
OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE."
THAT...
NEVER HAPPENED TO ME.
GABRIEL...
VERY GOOD.
[ CLEARS THROAT ]
BUT IT APPEARS THAT YOU ARE
IN MY PERSONNEL FILE.
[ CLEARS THROAT ]
[ SIGHS ]
[ SAW WHIRRING ]
[ ELECTRICITY WARBLES ]
WHAT'S GOING ON?
WHAT HAPPENED?
WHAT THE HELL?
I LOST ACCESS.
EVERYTHING WENT DARK.
[ SIGHS ]
FINALLY, SILENCE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
YOU WENT DARK, AND HE WENT DARK
AT THE SAME TIME?
SOMEONE CUT THE TRUNK.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
THEY'VE CUT
THE INCOMING OPTIC LINES.
NO MORE ACCESS
TO THE OUTSIDE.
WHAT ABOUT CELLULAR
AND SATELLITE?
GABRIEL
SHOULD HAVE ACCESS TO --
NO, NO,
NOT IN THIS BUILDING.
IT'S SHIELDED TO PROTECT IT
FROM PRYING EYES AND EARS.
WHEN GABRIEL
IS IN THIS BUILDING,
HE'S ACCESSING THE WORLD OUTSIDE
THROUGH OUR INTERNAL NETWORK.
WITH THE HARD LINES DOWN,
NO ACCESS.
[ WHIRRING ]
IT'S BACK ON.
[ SIGHS ] NO.
OH, DAMN IT.
THERE IT IS AGAIN.
THOUGHT YOU SAID
IT WASN'T ONLINE.
IT'S NOT, NOT TO THE OUTSIDE,
ANYWAY.
BUT I STILL HAVE ACCESS TO
THE INTERNAL SERVERS, AND...
GABRIEL WOULD HAVE THAT,
TOO.
SO, JUST NO...
CONNECTION
TO THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
[ TIRES SCREECH ]
Man:
THIS MUST BE THE CAVALRY.
SYSTEM'S DOWN.
WE'VE LOST ALL COMMUNICATION --
[ TIRES SCREECHING ]
[ SHOUTING IN MANDARIN ]
LOOK ON THE BRIGHT SIDE --
AT LEAST OUR SERVERS ARE SAFE.
YEAH, BUT NOW WE'RE
TOTALLY CUT OFF!
WE'RE OPERATING
IN THE BLIND.
MS. STRAND, YOU HAVE JUST
REMOVED FROM SERVICE
ONE OF THE CORE PIECES
OF THE UNITED STATES
TECHNOLOGY
INFRASTRUCTURE.
PUT IT
IN YOUR REPORT.
[ SHOUTING IN MANDARIN ]
[ GUNFIRE ]
WHAT'S THAT SOUND?
GUNFIRE.
WE'RE UNDER ATTACK!
[ BEEP ]
[ GUNFIRE ]
[ SHOUTING CONTINUES ]
BE ADVISED --
[ GROANS ]
JIN CONG.
AFTER ALL THE TROUBLE
YOU CAUSED ME...
DID YOU REALLY THINK
I WOULDN'T BE BACK FOR YOU?
YOU ARE WONDERING
HOW THIS IS POSSIBLE.
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
PROMISED YOU
THEY WOULD LOCK ME AWAY
FOREVER.
HOW, THEN,
CAN I BE HERE NOW?
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES
FOR MY PEOPLE
IN LEARNING AMERICAN ENGLISH
IS YOUR EXTENSIVE USE OF IDIOMS.
PERSONALLY,
I'VE ALWAYS ENJOYED THEM.
ONE OF MY FAVORITES IS
"A TASTE OF YOUR OWN MEDICINE."
IT'S GONNA BE A VERY DIFFICULT
DAY FOR YOU.
THANK YOU, NORMAN.
IF YOU'RE HERE FOR GABRIEL,
CONG, YOU'VE MISCALCULATED.
HE ISN'T IN THE BUILDING.
OH, I'M AFRAID HE IS.
IN FACT,
I WOULD THINK BY NOW,
YOU'VE HAD HIM TAKEN
TO DR. CASSIDY'S LAB
FOR A DIAGNOSTIC
AFTER THE E.M.P.
BUT THE TRUTH IS,
GABRIEL IS NOT MY PROBLEM NOW.
HE'S YOURS.
ARE YOU REALLY
THIS FOOLISH?
THERE ARE
SPECIAL FORCES TROOPS
GEARING UP
TO STORM THIS BUILDING.
OH, NO ONE IS GEARING UP
TO DO ANYTHING.
YOU SEVERED THE TRUNK,
REMEMBER?
THE ORION PROTOCOL?
The spoof station I.D.
He must have figured out a way
to trick the D.O.D.
into thinking
we're still all right.
BY OUR CALCULATIONS,
WE HAVE APPROXIMATELY 48 MINUTES
BEFORE ANYONE REALIZES
THAT SOMETHING'S WRONG.
WE'LL BE OUT OF HERE
IN 35.
I'VE HAD...A GREAT DEAL
OF TIME TO PLAN.
AH, MY FAVORITE
OF ALL YOUR IDIOMS...
"IDLE HANDS
ARE THE DEVIL'S WORKSHOP."
THEY'VE
BREACHED C-DOC,
BUT THERE'S NO REPORTS
OF CASUALTIES.
WELL,
HOW COULD THERE BE?
WE HAVE
NO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
WE'RE LUCKY WE HAVE POWER.
YEAH, WE NEED EYES.
CAN YOU TAP INTO
THE SECURITY CAMERAS?
DR. CASSIDY,
CAN YOU DO THAT?
YES. YES, OF COURSE.
I'LL TRY.
[ BEEPING ]
AS LONG AS WE HAVE POWER,
I SHOULD BE
ABLE TO FIND A WAY IN.
OHH, DAMN IT!
GABRIEL! GABRIEL!
[ BEEPING ]
WELL, THAT'S HANDY.
Nelson: WOW.
[ KEYBOARD CLACKING ]
THIS GUY'S EFFICIENT.
IT TOOK HIM ALL OF 6 MINUTES TO
GRAB THE SCHEMATICS OF THE CHIP
AND EVERYTHING WE HAVE
ON THE CLOCKWORK PROGRAM.
BUT WHAT ELSE
DOES HE WANT?
YEAH. I DON'T GET IT.
WHY NOT JUST TAKE GABRIEL
AND GO?
I DON'T KNOW.
HE'S STILL LOOKING
FOR SOMETHING ON THE NETWORK.
WELL, WHATEVER IT IS,
HE'S GONNA FIND IT.
THIS NORMAN IS VARSITY.
THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO FIND IT.
WHAT ARE
YOU TALKING ABOUT?
HE'S ALREADY HALFWAY THROUGH
THE NETWORK IN 35 MINUTES.
THIS G--
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATION ]
YOU KNOW WHAT HE'S LOOKING FOR,
DON'T YOU?
I HAVE AN IDEA.
WELL, WHAT IS IT?
OKAY, WHERE IS IT?
IT'S NOT ON THE NETWORK.
OKAY, LOOK, LILLIAN,
WHATEVER IT IS,
YOU KNOW WE'LL DIE
SAVING IT.
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR SOMETHING
CALLED THE ATHENS LIST.
ATHENS,
AS IN ATHENS-4U7R?
IT'S THE GENE MUTATION
THAT'S REQUIRED
FOR THE CHIP TO WORK
IN A HUMAN BEING.
RIGHT.
WHAT'S ON THE LIST?
CHILDREN.
CHILDREN
WITH THE GENE MUTATION.
LILLIAN, DO YOU REALIZE
HOW SPECTACULARLY DANGEROUS
A LIST LIKE THAT
COULD BE?
YES, JAMESON.
IT'S SOMETHING PEOPLE
TAKE HOSTAGES OVER.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATION ]
DOES MY DAD KNOW
ABOUT THIS?
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
HE'S THE ONE WHO DISCOVERED
THE MUTATION IN THE FIRST PLACE.
[ BEEPING ]
DAMN IT, GABRIEL.
WHERE THE HELL ARE YOU GOING?
IT'S NOT HERE.
MS. STRAND,
THIS IS VERY SIMPLE.
YOU ARE AWARE OF WHAT
I'M LOOKING FOR, YES?
HOW WOULD I KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR?
THE SO-CALLED
ATHENS LIST.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THAT IS.
NO!
Jameson: DON'T!
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
[ SPEAKS MANDARIN ]
THAT ONE IS NEXT.
AH, EUREKA!
VICTORY IS MINE.
[ GASPS ]
OKAY, LOOK, CONG, YOU WANT TO
SHOOT SOMEONE, SHOOT ME.
NO.
IT'S FINE.
IT'S FINE!
LILLIAN...
DON'T YOU GIVE THIS GUY
A THING.
WHERE IS IT?
OHH.
YOU LIKE IDIOMS?
WELL, HOW ABOUT...
OH, MY GOD.
I GOT NOTHING.
Norman:
[ SPEAKS MANDARIN ]
SIR, UH,
YOU MIGHT WANT TO SEE THIS.
REALLY? NOTHING?
YOU GET A CHANCE LIKE THAT,
YOU GOT NOTHING?
[ SCOFFS ]
[ SPEAKS MANDARIN ]
YOU'RE SENDING THOSE TWO
FOR GABRIEL?
GOOD LUCK.
YOU NEVER CAN MAKE THINGS EASY,
CAN YOU?
YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHO YOU ARE, AND YOU'RE
STILL A PAIN IN MY ASS.
[ MAN SHOUTS IN MANDARIN ]
[ GRUNTING ]
[ BONE CRACKS ]
[ PANTING ]
[ GUN COCKS ]
GABRIEL.
WHOA. RELAX.
GABRIEL...
HOW WAS
I ABLE TO DO THAT?
WAS THAT THE MICROCHIP?
NO, THAT'S ALL YOU.
YOU WERE DELTA FORCE.
YOU CAN BE VERY LETHAL.
JUST PUT THE GUN DOWN.
WE'RE FRIENDS, GABRIEL.
YOU'RE NOT A KILLER.
GOOD. THAT'S GOOD.
WE NEED TO GET YOU
BACK TO CLOCKWORK --
GET BEHIND ME.
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
GABRIEL,
THANK GOD YOU'RE OKAY.
NOW, I UNDERSTAND
IF YOU DON'T REMEMBER.
YOU TOLD ME
THIS MIGHT HAPPEN.
JUST LOOK AT HER, ALL RIGHT,
AND PULL UP HER FILES.
Gabriel: DOUBLE AGENT --
ENDANGERED A VICE PRESIDENT
AND REVEALED STATE SECRETS
TO THE PAKISTANIS.
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
GABRIEL,
HE'S CORRUPTED MY FILE.
SHE'S THE ENEMY,
GABRIEL.
SHE'S OUR ENEMY.
HE'S LYING TO YOU, GABRIEL.
WE NEED TO TIE HER UP.
WE GOT TO MOVE.
GABRIEL.
GABRIEL,
THAT IS JIN CONG.
[ CUFFS TIE ]
Cong:
AND WE SEARCHED THE SERVERS.
THE ATHENS LIST ISN'T ON
THE MAIN COMPUTER NETWORK.
CAN YOU FIND OUT
WHERE THEY HID IT?
YOU MEAN
WITH THIS CHIP THING?
SEE WHAT I CAN DO.
LISTEN TO ME, GABRIEL.
I'M ORDERING YOU TO STAND DOWN.
I DON'T TAKE ORDERS
FROM YOU.
ACTUALLY, YOU DO.
YOU'RE JUST EXPERIENCING
A MALFUNCTION WITH YOUR CHIP.
RIGHT, THE SAME CHIP
YOU WANT TO IMPLANT
IN THE BRAINS OF CHILDREN?
THE LIST ISN'T HERE.
IT'S NOT BEING STORED
ON THESE SERVERS.
WHERE IS IT?
WHERE DID YOU HIDE IT?
YOU MAY
THINK YOU KNOW ME,
BUT THERE'S NO WAY
I'LL LET YOU DO TO THOSE KIDS
WHAT YOU DID TO ME.
WE DIDN'T DO ANYTHING
TO YOU.
YOU BEGGED ME
TO GIVE YOU THE CHIP
SO THAT YOU COULD FIND
YOUR WIFE.
DO YOU REMEMBER HER?
YOUR WIFE, AMELIA?
OR HAS HE TAKEN THAT AWAY
FROM YOU, TOO?
SHE'S PLAYING GAMES.
YOUR WIFE
WAS A DOUBLE AGENT.
AND AS FOR YOUR MARRIAGE,
IT WAS NEVER REAL...
MERELY A COVER.
GO AHEAD.
CHECK FOR YOURSELF.
THAT IS NOT TRUE,
GABRIEL.
YOU LOVED AMELIA
VERY MUCH.
AND YET I'M TOLD
THAT YOU KILLED GABRIEL'S WIFE.
WHO THE HELL
TOLD YOU THAT?
IT'S IN YOUR SIT REPORT.
OR ARE YOU GOING TO DENY IT,
AGENT NEAL?
YOU DID.
YOU KILLED HER.
YOU SEE?
YOU CAN'T TRUST THEM.
BUT WE DON'T HAVE TIME
FOR THIS.
WE NEED TO FIND
THE LIST OF CHILDREN.
IT'S ON A MACHINE
NOT CONNECTED TO THE NETWORK.
GABRIEL.
DO YOU KNOW
WHERE THAT IS?
WE'LL NEED HER
TO ACCESS IT.
WELL, WELL.
THE PROVERBIAL GETAWAY CARS.
THINK ABOUT WHAT YOU'RE DOING,
GABRIEL.
WHAT DO YOU THINK JIN CONG
IS GONNA DO WITH THAT LIST
ONCE HE HAS IT?
YOU HAVE NO RIGHT
TO THESE CHILDREN,
JUST AS YOU HAD NO RIGHT
TO GABRIEL.
DON'T YOU SEE, GABRIEL,
THAT HE'S USING YOU?
YOU HAVE TO KNOW THE TRUTH.
I DO KNOW THE TRUTH.
LILLIAN STRAND, DIRECTOR
OF UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.
IMPLICATED IN THE DEATHS
OF THREE SOLDIERS
AS PART OF AN EXPERIMENTAL
RESEARCH PROJECT
CODE-NAMED CLOCKWORK.
YOU'VE BEEN KILLING PEOPLE
AND HIDING BEHIND YOUR JOB.
THOSE MEN WERE VOLUNTEERS,
GABRIEL.
YOU WERE ALL VOLUNTEERS.
WHAT ABOUT THE CHILDREN?
DID THEY VOLUNTEER,
TOO?
THIS ONE.
YOU'RE NOT GONNA
GET AWAY WITH THIS.
SOMEONE WILL STOP YOU,
AND WHEN THEY DO,
YOU'RE GONNA PRAY
FOR THOSE DAYS
WHEN YOU WERE BACK
IN A HOLE IN CHINA,
BEING USED AS A PINCUSHION
BY THE GUARDS.
[ SPEAKING MANDARIN ]
Hey. Are you guys
gonna kick some ass?
Shh.
Don't leave me out!
I can kick some serious ass!
Believe me!
DAD?
YOU READY?
LET'S DO THIS.
NELSON!
[ SHOUTING IN MANDARIN ]
I'VE GOT TO GET
TO THE DRY SERVER ROOM.
Jameson: GO. I'LL TAKE CARE
OF THINGS HERE.
HEY, NELSON.
ARE YOU OKAY?
I JUST KILLED SOMEBODY.
NO, YOU DIDN'T.
ALL YOU DID
WAS KILL THE CEILING.
[ SIGHS ]
I DON'T HAVE TO
PAY FOR THAT, DO I?
[ SIGHS ]
I COULD JUST AS EASILY
CUT IT OFF.
[ GUN COCKS ]
NOW, WAS THAT SO HARD?
ALMOST HAVE IT.
YOU CAN STOP THERE.
[ SIGHS ]
I CAN USE THE SECURITY CAMERAS
TO SEE, REMEMBER?
YOU'RE FIGHTING ON THE WRONG
SIDE OF THIS, GABRIEL.
I KNOW THE THINGS YOU'VE DONE,
THE PEOPLE YOU'VE KILLED.
HOW YOU'VE KEPT ME
UNDER SURVEILLANCE
LIKE I'M SOME KIND OF PRISONER,
SOME KIND OF TOOL.
GABRIEL, DON'T!
[ GRUNTS ]
DON'T MOVE!
DON'T MOVE, GABRIEL.
I'M NOT GONNA LET YOU
GET THOSE KIDS.
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO
KILL ME.
Lillian: RILEY.
RILEY, WE CAN'T TRUST HIM.
IT'S OKAY.
YOU WERE SAYING?
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
CONG IS USING THE CHIP
AGAINST YOU.
HE'S DONE SOMETHING
TO THE COMPUTERS.
YOU'RE GETTING BAD DATA.
[ GRUNTS ]
[ SIGHS ]
HE'S LYING TO YOU,
GABRIEL.
YOU STOP THINKING FOR A SECOND,
YOU'LL SEE THAT.
"IF I STOP THINKING."
YES.
[ SIGHS ]
YOU'RE NOT A MACHINE.
YOU HAVE TO IGNORE
THE DATA.
AND DO WHAT?
FEEL.
YOU KNOW ME, GABRIEL.
LOOK AT ME, AND...
TELL ME WHAT YOU FEEL,
NOT WHAT YOU THINK.
YOU MAY NOT HAVE MEMORY,
BUT YOU HAVE SENSE MEMORY.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE?
IT'S THE RECALL
OF AN EMOTION.
I CAN'T REMEMBER
ANY EMOTION.
NOBODY CAN REMEMBER
EMOTIONS.
YOU FEEL THEM,
JUST LIKE YOU FELT
THAT IT WAS WRONG
TO PUT A CHIP IN THOSE KIDS.
YOU DIDN'T REMEMBER.
YOU ALREADY KNEW.
NOT BECAUSE OF A CHIP,
BUT BECAUSE THAT...
IS THE KIND OF MAN
YOU ARE.
LISTEN TO YOUR...
INNER VOICE.
IT'S TALKING TO YOU RIGHT NOW.
I KNOW IT IS.
AND HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT?
I JUST KNOW.
THANK YOU.
[ SIGHS ]
[ GRUNTS ]
WE HAVE TO STOP CONG.
DAD?
I HAVE A GUN.
NO, NO, UH,
YOU DON'T NEED A GUN, DAD.
IT'S OKAY.
DAD, IT'S OKAY.
JAMESON?
[ SIGHS ]
[ LAUGHS ]
OH, MY GOD.
[ Laughing ] OH.
OKAY, OKAY.
[ Sighing ] OH.
OKAY.
OH, THANK GOD
YOU'RE ALL RIGHT.
YEAH.
IS IT TRUE?
IS WHAT TRUE?
THAT YOU HELPED THEM TO CREATE
A LIST OF CHILDREN?
THE ATHENS LIST.
THAT'S -- [ SIGHS ]
THAT LIST WAS SUPPOSED TO
HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
HOW COULD YOU?!
NELSON,
I DISCOVERED A MUTATION,
A MUTATION THAT WOULD ALLOW US
TO AUGMENT THE HUMAN MIND.
BUT I NEVER --
GOD, EVER --
INTENDED TO ENDANGER ANYONE,
ESPECIALLY CHILDREN, PLEASE.
WELL,
INTENDED OR NOT, DAD,
THAT LIST COULD ONLY
MAKE THOSE KIDS VULNERABLE.
AND NOW JIN CONG HAS IT,
AND HE'S GOTTEN AWAY.
I WOULDN'T BE SO CERTAIN
ABOUT THAT IF I WERE YOU.
[ WHIRRING ]
UM, SIR, WHAT'S THAT?
[ BEEPING ]
[ LAUGHING ]
SEE, JIN CONG'S USE OF AN E.M.P.
TO RENDER GABRIEL INOPERABLE --
THAT GOT ME THINKING.
IT STANDS TO REASON
THAT IF AN ENERGY DISCHARGE
CAN BE USED TO TEMPORARILY
DISLOCATE AN ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT,
THEN WHY CAN'T ONE BE TUNED
THAT TARGETS
THE DENDRITE-AXON GAP
BETWEEN HUMAN NERVE ENDINGS?
YOU BUILT A STUN BOMB?
I BUILT A NONLETHAL,
AREA-EFFECT
STATIC DISCHARGE DEVICE
THAT, UH, HAPPENS TO EMPLOY
FREQUENCIES RELEVANT TO
THE AFOREMENTIONED --
YOU BUILT A STUN BOMB.
YOU BET YOUR ASS I DID.
[ LAUGHS ]
HEY, GUYS.
OH, GOD.
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
[ GRUNTS ]
DON'T MOVE!
[ GUNS COCK ]
THAT'S FAR ENOUGH.
GABRIEL...
[ GRUNTS ]
[ PANTING ]
AAH!
[ GROANING ]
[ GUNSHOT ]
RILEY...
...PLEASE TAKE GABRIEL
DOWN TO CLOCKWORK.
I WOULD LIKE
MY AGENT BACK NOW.
ALL RIGHTY.
I'VE, UH,
REPLACED YOUR DATA SOURCES.
I PUT IN SOME NEW MULTI-PATH
REJECTION ALGORITHMS.
THAT'LL TAKE CARE OF ANY
WIDE-BAND PULSE PROBLEMS.
I WOULD SAY, YOUNG MAN,
THAT YOU ARE AS GOOD AS NEW.
THANKS, DOC.
AND, UH...
...SORRY ABOUT ALL THIS.
HELL, GABRIEL.
YOU PROVED SOMETHING
LAST NIGHT
THAT PHILOSOPHERS HAVE WONDERED
ACROSS TIME IMMEMORIAL.
THE MIND IS A COLLECTION
OF PERCEPTIONS, CALCULATIONS,
MEMORIES, INSTINCT.
BUT, UH...
ULTIMATELY,
THE MOST IMPORTANT DECISIONS --
THEY AREN'T MADE
BY OUR MINDS.
ARE THEY?
NO, SIRREE.
WHERE WE FIND OUR MOST PROFOUND
INTELLIGENCE IS, AFTER ALL...
IN THE HEART.
[ SIGHS ]
[ CHUCKLES ]
HMM.
RELAX, LILLIAN.
IT'S ME.
YOU SURE?
WELL,
WELCOME BACK, SOLDIER.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I'D LIKE A WORD
WITH YOUR DOCTOR.
YOU GOT IT, BOSS.
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
HE'S GONNA BE FINE.
[ SIGHS ]
ALL RIGHT.
YOU KEPT THE ATHENS LIST,
LILLIAN,
EVEN THOUGH WE AGREED
THAT YOU WOULD DESTROY IT.
IT WAS SOMETHING
BEYOND MY CONTROL.
WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?
A LIST OF CHILDREN!
NO RESPECTABLE SCIENTIST,
NO RESPECTABLE HUMAN BEING
WOULD EVER KEEP
A LIST LIKE THAT.
WELL, WE'RE NOT DEALING
WITH RESPECTABLE SCIENTISTS.
WE'RE DEALING WITH
THE UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
THEY WANTED THEIR LIST
OF CANDIDATES.
PLEASE, THE KIDS ON THAT LIST
ARE NOT CANDIDATES.
THEY'RE TARGETS.
WELL, UNLIKE YOU, I DON'T HAVE
THE LUXURY OF IGNORING ORDERS.
WHAT I DO
IS THE BEST I CAN DO.
I KEEP THE LIST
AS SAFE AS I CAN,
AND I WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO
WITH YOUR HELP.
I WANT NO PART OF THIS.
THE ONLY WAY TO PROTECT
THAT LIST IS WITH GABRIEL.
AND WITHOUT YOU,
THERE IS NO GABRIEL.
WE OWE IT
TO THOSE CHILDREN.
LIKE IT OR NOT, WE'RE THE ONES
THAT PUT THEM IN DANGER.
AND NEITHER OF US GETS TO WALK
AWAY FROM THAT TRUTH.
[ SIGHING ]
"AND NOW
I AM BECOME DEATH...
THE DESTROYER OF WORLDS."
OPPENHEIMER.
YEAH.
WELL, AT LEAST NOW
I UNDERSTAND WHAT HE FELT
WHEN HE SPLIT THE ATOM.
SO MUCH POTENTIAL.
SO MANY REASONS FOR HOPE.
OH, THE IRONY.
WE ARE THE HOPE.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
SORRY. I...
WASN'T EXACTLY MYSELF
LAST NIGHT.
THANKS FOR...
NOT SHOOTING ME.
TOO MANY WITNESSES.
[ WHIRRING ]
YES! MWAH! FINALLY!
I'M OUT!
[ BOTH LAUGH ]